Processing log stream + docs (#2387)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/processing-log.rst

.. _ksql_processing_log:

KSQL Processing Log
-------------------

KSQL emits a log of record processing events, called the processing log, to help developers debug

> their KSQL queries. As KSQL executes a query, it writes records to the processing log detailing how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their KSQL queries. As KSQL executes a query, it writes records to the processing log that detail how
```

> it processes each row, including details about any errors it encounters along the way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it processes each row, including any errors it encounters along the way.
```

Log entries are written with a log level, so you can tune the log to emit a verbose trace of every

> record processed, to only log errors, or disable it completely. Log entries are also written with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
record processed, to log only errors, or to disable it completely. Log entries are also written with
```

> a hierarchical name that can be corellated back to the query execution plan. This way you can tune

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a hierarchical name that can be correlated back to the query execution plan. This way, you can tune
```

the log level for specific queries, and even specific steps of a given query.

Log entries are structured events, so in addition to using them to help you debug, they should be
easy to consume from downstream applications and from KSQL itself. In fact, KSQL supports writing

> the processing log to kafka and consuming it as KSQL stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the processing log to Kafka and consuming it as KSQL stream.
```

Logger Names
============

The logger name identifies the logger that emits a log record. Logger names are hierarchical. The
logger name always has the prefix: ``processing.<query-id>``, where ``query-id`` refers to the KSQL

> query ID (e.g. as returned by ``LIST QUERIES;``). Loggers for a given query are organized into a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
query ID, which you can see with statements like ``LIST QUERIES;``. Loggers for a given query are organized into a
```

> hierarchy according to the step in the execution plan that uses the logger. The log level can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hierarchy according to the step in the execution plan that uses the logger. You can configure the log level
```

> configured using a prefix of the logger name to set the level for all loggers under that prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by using a prefix of the logger name to set the level for all loggers under that prefix.
```

The logger name for a given step is included in the execution plan:

::

    Execution plan
    --------------
    > [ SINK ] | Schema: [VIEWTIME : BIGINT, KSQL_COL_1 : VARCHAR, KSQL_COL_2 : VARCHAR] | Logger: processing.CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0.PAGEVIEWS_UPPER
    		 > [ PROJECT ] | Schema: [VIEWTIME : BIGINT, KSQL_COL_1 : VARCHAR, KSQL_COL_2 : VARCHAR] | Logger: processing.CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0.Project
    				 > [ SOURCE ] | Schema: [PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL.ROWTIME : BIGINT, PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL.ROWKEY : VARCHAR, PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL.VIEWTIME : BIGINT, PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL.USERID : VARCHAR, PAGEVIEWS_ORIGINAL.PAGEID : VARCHAR] | Logger: processing.CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0.KsqlTopic

Configuration Using Log4J
=========================

> The log uses log4j underneath to write entries, so you can configure it just like you would the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, the log uses log4j to write entries, so you can configure it just like you would the
```

normal KSQL log. All entries are written under the logger hierarchy ``processing``. The following
example shows how to configure the processing log to emit all events at ERROR level or higher to
an appender that writes to stdout:

::

     log4j.appender.stdout=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
     log4j.appender.stdout.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
     log4j.appender.stdout.layout.ConversionPattern=[%d] %p %m (%c:%L)%n
     log4j.logger.processing=ERROR, stdout
     log4j.additivity.processing=false

> If you wanted to set the log level to DEBUG for the query ``CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0``, then you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wanted to set the log level to DEBUG for a query named ``CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0``, you
```

could write the following into your log4j properties file:

::

    log4j.logger.processing=ERROR, stdout
    log4j.logger.processing.CSAS_PAGEVIEWS_UPPER_0=DEBUG
    log4j.additivity.processing=false

Note On Security
================

> Note that entries in the record processing log may include data from the rows processed by KSQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entries in the record-processing log may include data from the rows processed by KSQL.
```

Therefore you must be careful to ensure that the log is configured to write to a destination

> where it is safe to write the data being processed. Its also important to set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where it is safe to write the data being processed. It's also important to set
```

> ``log4j.additivity.processing=false`` as in the above example, to ensure that processing log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``log4j.additivity.processing=false`` as shown in the previous example, to ensure that processing log
```

events are not forwarded to appenders configured for the other ksql loggers.

> It is possible to disable the log completely by setting the level to OFF:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable the log completely by setting the level to OFF:
```

::

    log4j.logger.processing=OFF

Log Schema
==========

> Log entries are structured, and have the following schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log entries are structured and have the following schema:
```

logger (STRING)
  The name of the logger that wrote the log entry.

level (STRING)
  The log level that the entry was logged with.

time  (LONG)
  The time that the entry was logged.

message (STRUCT)
  The log entry itself.

message.type (INT)
  An int that describes the type of the log message. Currently, the following types are
  defined: 0 (DESERIALIZATION_ERROR), 1 (RECORD_PROCESSING_ERROR).

message.deserializationError (STRUCT)
  The contents of a message with type 0 (DESERIALZATION_ERROR). Logged when a deserializer
  fails to deserialize a Kafka record.

message.deserializationError.errorMessage (STRING)
  A string containing a human-readable error message detailing the error encountered.

message.deserializationError.recordB64 (STRING)

>   The Kafka record, encoded in base64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Kafka record, encoded in Base64.
```

message.recordProcessingError.errorMessage (STRING)
  The contents of a message with type 1 (RECORD_PROCESSING_ERROR). Logged when KSQL hits
  an error when processing a record (for example, an unexpected null value when evaluating

>   an operator in a SELECT clause).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  an operator in a SELECT clause.
```

message.recordProcessingError.record (STRING)
  The KSQL record, serialized as a JSON string.

Log Stream
==========

> The recommended way to use the query processing log is to configure it to write entries back to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend configuring the query processing log to write entries back to
```

> Kafka. Then, you can configure KSQL to setup a stream over the topic automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kafka. This way, you can configure KSQL to set up a stream over the topic automatically.
```

> To log to Kafka, you need to set up a Kafka appender and setup a special layout for formatting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log to Kafka, set up a Kafka appender and a special layout for formatting the
```

log entries as JSON:

::

    log4j.appender.kafka=org.apache.kafka.log4jappender.KafkaLog4jAppender
    log4j.appender.kafka.layout=io.confluent.common.logging.log4j.StructuredJsonLayout
    log4j.appender.kafka.BrokerList=<list of kafka brokers>
    log4j.appender.kafka.Topic=<kafka topic>

> Where ``list of kafka brokers`` is a comma-separated list of brokers in the Kafka cluster, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``list of kafka brokers`` setting is a comma-separated list of brokers in the Kafka cluster, and
```

> ``kafka topic`` is the name of the kafka topic to log to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``kafka topic`` is the name of the Kafka topic to log to.
```

> To have KSQL setup the log topic automatically at start up, include the following in your KSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have KSQL set up the log topic automatically at startup, include the following in your KSQL
```

properties file:

::

    ksql.processing.log.topic.auto.create=on
    ksql.processing.log.topic.name=<kafka topic>  # defaults to processing_log

The replication factor and partition count are configurable
using the ``ksql.processing.log.topic.replication.factor`` and ``ksql.processing.log.topic.partitions`` properties,
respectively.

If you are bringing up a new interactive mode KSQL cluster, you can configure KSQL setup

> a log stream automatically by including the following in your KSQL properties file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a log stream automatically by including the following in your KSQL properties file:
```

> a log stream automatically by including the following in your KSQL properties file:

Reviewer: I think there's a word missing here...

::

    ksql.processing.log.stream.auto.create=on
    ksql.processing.log.stream.name=<stream name>  # defaults to PROCESSING_LOG

> Then, once you start KSQL, you should see the stream in your list of streams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start KSQL, you should see the stream in your list of streams:
```
